## Improvement to garbage collection for short-lived actors

We have a few example programs that create a large number of short-lived actors that can exhibit runaway memory growth. This update greatly reduces the memory growth or potentially reduce it to be stable.

The primary change here is to use some static analysis at compilation time to determine if an actor is "an orphan". That is, upon creation, has no actors (including it's creator) with references to it.

In order to support the concept of an "orphan actor", additional changes had to be made to the cycle detector protocol and how other actors interact with it. There are two primary things we can do with an orphan actor to improve the rate of garbage collection when the cycle detector is running.

When the cycle detector is running actors are collected by the cycle detector when they have no other actors referring to them and can't receive any new messages or are in a cycle that can't receive additional messages.

The examples listed in this PR all had problematic memory usage because, actors were created at a rate that overwhelmed the cycle detector and caused large amount of messages to it to back up and sit in its queue waiting to be processed.

This update addresses the "too many messages" problem by making the following actor GC rule changes for orphan actors. Note, all these rules are when the cycle detector is running.

* when an actor finishes being run by a scheduler thread "locally delete" it if:

  * no other actors hold a reference to the actor
  * the cycle detector isn't holding a reference to the actor
  * its queue is empty

  "locally deleting" follows the same message free protocol used when the cycle detector isn't running.

* when an actor finishes being run by a scheduler thread, preemptively inform the
  cycle detector that we are blocked if:

  * no other actors hold a reference to the actor
  * the cycle detector is holding a reference to the actor
  * its queue is empty

  by preemptively informing the cycle detector that we are blocked, the cycle detector can delete the actor more quickly. This "preemptively" notify change was introduced in [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649).

In order to support these changes, additional cycle detector protocol changes were made. Previously, every actor upon creation informed the cycle detector of its existence. If we want to allow for local deleting, then this won't work. Every actor was known by the cycle detector. All concept of "actor created" messages have been removed by this change. Instead, actors have a flag FLAG_CD_CONTACTED that is set if the actor has ever sent a message to the cycle detector. Once the flag is set, we know that locally deleting the actor is unsafe and we can fall back on the slower preemptively inform strategy.

The cycle detector works by periodically sending messages to all actors it knows about and asking them if they are currently blocked as the first step in its "path to actor garbage collection" protocol. As actors no longer inform the cycle detector of their existence on creation, the cycle detector needs a new way to discover actors.

The first time an actor becomes logically blocked, it sets itself as blocked and notifies the cycle detector of its existence and that it is blocked. This is done by:

* setting the actor as blocked
* sending an "i'm blocked" message to the cycle detector
* setting FLAG_CD_CONTACTED on the actor

The overall effect of these changes is:

- The rate of garbage collection for short-lived actors is improved.
- Fewer cycle detector related messages are generated.

It should be noted that if an actor is incorrectly identified by the compiler as being an orphan when it is in fact not, the end result would be a segfault. During development of this feature, it was discovered that the following code from the Promise select test would segfault:

```pony
let pb = Promise[String] .> next[None]({(s) => h.complete_action(s) })
```

The issue was that .> wasn't being correctly handled by the `is_result_needed` logic in `expr.c`. It is possibly that other logic within the function is faulty and if segfaults are see after this change that didn't exist prior to it, then incorrectly identifying an actor as an orphan might be the culprit.

Prior to these change, examples such as the one from issue [#007](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/1007) (listed later) would be unable to be collected due to an edge-case in the cycle detector and the runtime garbage collection algorithms.

Issue [#007](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/1007) was opened with the following code having explosive memory growth:

```pony
primitive N fun apply(): U64 => 2_000_000_000

actor Test
  new create(n: U64) =>
    if n == 0 then return end
    Test(n - 1)

actor Main
  new create(env: Env) =>
    Test(N())
```

A previous PR [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649) partially addressed some memory growth issues by adding the "preemptively informing" that detailed earlier. The example above from [#007](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/1007) wasn't addressed by [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649) because the key to [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649) was that when done running its behaviors, an actor can see if it has no additional messages AND no references to itself and can then tell the cycle detector to skip parts of the CD protocol and garbage collect sooner. [#007](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/1007) requires the "local delete" functionality from this change whereas [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649) only provided "pre-emptive informing".

The addition of "local delete" allows for the cycle detector to keep up with many cases of generating large amounts of "orphaned" actors. The from [#007](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/1007) above wasn't addressed by [#3649](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/pull/3649) because of an implementation detail in the ORCA garbage collection protocol; at the time that an instance of Test is done running its create behavior, it doesn't have a reference count of 0. It has a reference count of 256. Not because there are 256 references but because, when an actor is created puts a "fake value" in the rc value such that an actor isn't garbage collected prematurely. The value will be set to the correct value once the actor that created it is first traced and will be subsequently updated correctly per ORCA going forward.

However, at the time that an instance of Test is finished running its create, that information isn't available. It would be incorrect to say "if rc is 256, I'm blocked and you can gc me". 256 is a perfectly reasonable value for an rc to be in normal usage.

This isn't a problem with the changes in this PR as the compiler detects that each instance of Test will be an orphan and immediately sets its rc to 0. This allows it to be garbage collected as the instance's message queue is empty so long as it's rc remains 0.

Any changes in the future to address lingering issues with creating large numbers of orphaned actors should also be tested with the following examples. Each exercises a different type of pattern that could lead to memory growth or incorrect execution.

Example 2 features reasonably stable memory usage that I have seen from time-to-time, increase rapidly. It should be noted that such an increase is rather infrequent but suggests there are additional problems in the cycle-detector. I suspect said problem is a periodic burst of additional messages to the cycle-detector from actors that can be garbage collected, but I haven't investigated further.

```pony
actor Main
  new create(e: Env) =>
    Spawner.run()

actor Spawner
  var _living_children: U64 = 0

  new create() =>
    None

  be run() =>
    _living_children = _living_children + 1
    Spawnee(this).run()

  be collect() =>
    _living_children = _living_children - 1
    run()

actor Spawnee
  let _parent: Spawner

  new create(parent: Spawner) =>
    _parent = parent

  be run() =>
    _parent.collect()
```

Example 3 has stable memory growth and given that it won't result in any messages being sent to the cycle detector as we have determined at compile-time that the Foo actor instances are orphaned.

```pony
actor Main
  var n: U64 = 2_000_000_000

  new create(e: Env) =>
    run()

  be run() =>
    while(n > 0 ) do
      Foo(n)
      n = n - 1
      if ((n % 1_000) == 0) then
        run()
        break
      end
     end

actor Foo
  new create(n: U64) =>
    if ((n % 1_000_000) == 0) then
      @printf[I32]("%ld\n".cstring(), n)
    end

    None
```

Example 4 has the same characteristics as example 3 with the code as of this change. However, it did exhibit different behavior prior to this change being fully completed and appears to be a good test candidate for any future changes.

```pony
actor Main
  var n: U64 = 2_000_000_000

  new create(e: Env) =>
    run()

  be run() =>
    while(n > 0 ) do
      Foo(n)
      n = n - 1
      if ((n % 1_000_000) == 0) then
        @printf[I32]("%ld\n".cstring(), n)
      end
      if ((n % 1_000) == 0) then
        run()
        break
      end
     end

actor Foo
  new create(n: U64) =>
    None
```

Finally, for anyone who works on improving this in the future, here's an additional test program beyond ones that already exist elsewhere for testing pony programs. This program will create a large number of actors that are orphaned but then send themselves to another actor. This should increase their rc count and keep them from being garbage collected. If the program segfaults, then something has gone wrong and the logic related to orphan actors has been broken. The example currently passes as of this change.

```pony
use "collections"

actor Holder
  let _holding: SetIs[ManyOfMe] = _holding.create()

  new create() =>
    None

  be hold(a: ManyOfMe) =>
    _holding.set(a)

  be ping() =>
    var c: U64 = 1_000
    for h in _holding.values() do
      if c > 0 then
        h.ping()
        c = c - 1
      end
    end

actor ManyOfMe
  new create(h: Holder) =>
    h.hold(this)

  be ping() =>
    None

actor Main
  var n: U64 = 500_000
  let holder: Holder

  new create(env: Env) =>
    holder = Holder
    run()

  be run() =>
    while(n > 0 ) do
      ManyOfMe(holder)
      n = n - 1
      if ((n % 1_000) == 0) then
        @printf[I32]("%ld\n".cstring(), n)
        run()
        holder.ping()
        break
      end
     end
```
