## Reimplement `with`

The `with` keyword has been little used in most Pony programs. `with` was implemented as "sugar" over the `try/else/then` construct. Over the course of time, this became problematic as changes were made to make `try` more friendly. However, these `try` changes negatively impacted `with`. Prior to this change, `with` had become [barely usable](https://github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/3759). We've reimplemented `with` to address the usability problems that built up over time. `with` is no longer sugar over `try` and as such, shouldn't develop any unrelated problems going forward. However, the reimplemented `with` is a breaking change.

Because `with` was sugar over `try, the full expression was `with/else`. Any error that occurred within a `with` block would be handled by provided `else`. The existence of `with/else` rather than pure `with` was not a principled choice. The `else` only existed because it was needed to satisfy error-handling in the `try` based implementation. Our new implementation of `with` does not have the optional `else` clause. All error handling is in the hands of the programmer like it would be with any other Pony construct.

Previously, you would have had:

```pony
with obj = SomeObjectThatNeedsDisposing() do
  // use obj
else
  // only run if an error has occurred
end
```

Now, you would do:

```pony
try
  with obj = SomeObjectThatNeedsDisposing() do
    // use obj
  end
else
  // only run if an error has occurred
end
```

Or perhaps:

```pony
with obj = SomeObjectThatNeedsDisposing() do
  try
    // use obj
  else
    // only run if an error has occurred
  end
end
```

The new `with` block guarantees that `dispose` will be called on all `with` condition variables before jumping away whether due to an `error` or a control flow structure such as `return`.

This first version of the "new `with`" maintains one weakness that the previous implementation suffered from; you can't use an `iso` variable as a `with` condition. The following code will not compile:

```pony
use @pony_exitcode[None](code: I32)

class Disposable
  var _exit_code: I32

  new iso create() =>
    _exit_code = 0

  fun ref set_exit(code: I32) =>
    _exit_code = code

  fun dispose() =>
    @pony_exitcode(_exit_code)

actor Main
  new create(env: Env) =>
    with d = Disposable do
      d.set_exit(10)
    end
```

A future improvement to the `with` implementation will allow the usage of `iso` variables as `with` conditions.
