## Systematic testing for the runtime

Pony is a concurrent and parallel language. Different actors can be run
at the same time on multiple CPUs. The Pony runtime coordinates all of
this interleaving of actors and contains a fair amount of complexity.
Runtime functionality such as the message queues and the backpressure
system rely on atomic operations which can be tricky to get right across
multiple platforms.

Systematic testing will allow us to coordinate the interleaving of the
multiple runtime scheduler threads in a deterministic and reproducible
manner. This ability to reproduce a particular runtime behavior will be
invaluable for debugging runtime issues.

The overall idea and some details of the implementation for systematic
testing has been shamelessly stolen from the Verona runtime (see:
https://github.com/microsoft/verona/blob/master/docs/explore.md#systematic-testing
for details). This implementation doesn't include replayable runtime
unit tests like Verona, but it sets a foundation for allowing replayable
runs of programs (and probably tests) for debugging runtime issues such
as backpressure/etc. Additionally, while all development and testing was
done on Linux, in theory this systematic testing functionality should
work on other operating systems (Windows, MacOS, Freebsd, etc) barring
issues related to lack of atomics for tracking the active thread and
whether a thread has stopped executing or not (unlikely to be an issue
on MacOS/Freebsd/other `pthread` based threading implementations).

### Instructions for using systematic testing...

The following instructions were tested on Linux but should in theory
function correctly on other *nix environments that use the Pony
`make`/`cmake` based build system.

Start with a clean environment:
```
make clean config=debug
```

Configure with `systematic testing` and `pthreads` enabled:
```
make configure config=debug use=scheduler_scaling_pthreads,systematic_testing
```

Build:
```
make build config=debug
```

Compile `helloworld`:
```
./build/debug-systematic_testing/ponyc examples/helloworld/
```

Run `helloworld`:
```
./helloworld
```

Output will look something like:

```
me@home:~/ponyc$ ./helloworld
Systematic testing using seed: 360200870782547...
(rerun with `<app> --ponysystematictestingseed 360200870782547` to reproduce)
<SNIPPED LOTS OF OUTPUT>
thread 139871784978176: yielding to thread: 139871776585472.. next_index: 3
Hello, world.
thread 139871776585472: yielding to thread: 139871768192768.. next_index: 4
<SNIPPED LOTS OF OUTPUT>
Systematic testing successfully finished!
me@home:~/ponyc$ 
```
