## Introduction of empty Ranges

Previously, a `Range` was considered infinite if either 1) the step is 0, or any of min, max, or step were NaN, +Inf or -Inf, or 2) if no progress could be made from min to max due to the sign of the step. This classification was a possible source of bugs including "hanging actors" when a `Range` would otherwise be reasonably expected to be **empty** -- producing no values. Through the RFC process the larger Pony community decided of the agreed-upon new mutually exclusive classification for what constitutes finite, infinite, and empty ranges.

We conducted a search of public Pony code and it appears that the vast majority of `Range` usage should not require any changes. The most likely required change is any infinite `Range` producing an infinite iterator of a single value; for this we recommend switching to use of `Iter[A].repeat_value(value)` from the itertools package.

The only remaining infinite ranges are a positive and negative towards their respective infinities, so any code that previously relied on an infinite iterator will need to change. For example, any code that previously flipped the sign of the iterator or max parameter as a way to iterate in a given direction infinitely will need to change.

Previously, the code below would iterate infinitely.

```pony
// This code will no longer work
let nan = F64(0) / F64(0)
for i in Range[F64](nan) do
  // Previously infinite in the positive direction
end
```

Will now need to be specified as follows.

```pony
let inf = F64.max_value() + F64.max_value()
for i in Range[F64](0, inf) do
  // Infinite in the positive direction
end
```

We can flip this relationship for a negative iterator.

```pony
let inf = F64.max_value() + F64.max_value()
for i in Range[F64](0, -inf, -1) do
  // Infinite in the negative direction
end
```
