CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing
============

It's good to hear that you want to contribute to Pony!

First of all please [search existing issues][complete-issue-list]. Apart from bug reports you will
find feature requests and work currently in progress too. If you cannot find a suitable issue —
[create a new one][new-issue]. Potential pull requests are no exception. Before you start working,
let's have a discussion and agree on the solution and scope.

Each of [bug report](#bug-report), [feature request](#feature-request) or [pull request](#pull-request)
has to cover different aspects described below.

Bug report
----------
Provide the following details:

  - short summary of what you was trying to achieve,
  - a code causing the bug,
  - expected result,
  - actual results and
  - environment details: at least operating system and compiler version (`ponyc -v`).

If possible, try to isolate the problem and provide just enough code to demonstrate it. Add any
related information which might help to fix the issue.

Feature request
---------------
Define a context and a problem the feature solves. List potential use cases and give some code
examples.

Pull request
------------
Provide the same information as you would for a [feature request](#feature-request).

Before issuing a pull request we ask that you squash all your commits into a 
single logical commit. While your PR is in review, we may ask for additional
changes, please do not squash those commits while the review is underway. Once
everything is good, we'll then ask you to further squash those commits before
merging. We ask that you not squash while a review is underway as it can make it
hard to follow what is going on. Additionally, we ask that you:

* [Write a good commit message](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
* Issue 1 Pull Request per feature. Don't lump unrelated changes together.

If you aren't sure how to squash multiple commits into one, Steve Klabnik wrote
[a handy guide](http://blog.steveklabnik.com/posts/2012-11-08-how-to-squash-commits-in-a-github-pull-request)
that you can refer to. 

We keep a [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) of all software changes with behavioural 
effects in ponyc. If your PR includes such changes (rather than say a
documentation update), please make sure that as part of PR, you have also
updated the CHANGELOG.

Code Formatting
---------------
A few code formatting rules to be aware of if you are submitting changes. In
general, take a look at the existing code and try to match that formatting
style. A couple things that might not be immediately obvious.

* Indentation

We indent using spaces not tabs.

* Watch your whitespace!

Use an editor plugin to remove unused trailing whitespace. This includes both at
the end of a line and at the end of a file. By the same token, remember to leave
a single newline only line at the end of each file. It makes output files to the
console much more pleasant.

* Line Length

We all have different sized monitors. What might look good on yours might look
like awful on another. Be kind and wrap all lines at 80 columns unless you
have a good reason not to.

* Reformatting code to meet standards

Try to avoid doing it. A commit that changes the formatting for large chunks of
a file makes for an ugly commit history when looking for important changes. This
means, don't commit code that doesn't conform to coding standards in the first
place. If you do reformat code, make sure it is either standalone reformatting
with no logic changes or confined solely to code whose logic you touched. For
example, changing the indentation in a file? Do not make logic changes along
with it. Editing a line that has extra whitespace at the end? Feel free to
remove it.

[complete-issue-list]: //github.com/ponylang/ponyc/search?q=&type=Issues&utf8=%E2%9C%93
[new-issue]: //github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/new

Commit message:

Add style tips to contributing documentation
There are some new points around style that should help keep the code
consistent. The main points are around naming (when to use snake_case
vs CamelCase), and how to break up long parameter lists.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing
============

It's good to hear that you want to contribute to Pony!

First of all please [search existing issues][complete-issue-list]. Apart from bug reports you will
find feature requests and work currently in progress too. If you cannot find a suitable issue —
[create a new one][new-issue]. Potential pull requests are no exception. Before you start working,
let's have a discussion and agree on the solution and scope.

Each of [bug report](#bug-report), [feature request](#feature-request) or [pull request](#pull-request)
has to cover different aspects described below.

Bug report
----------
Provide the following details:

  - short summary of what you was trying to achieve,
  - a code causing the bug,
  - expected result,
  - actual results and
  - environment details: at least operating system and compiler version (`ponyc -v`).

If possible, try to isolate the problem and provide just enough code to demonstrate it. Add any
related information which might help to fix the issue.

Feature request
---------------
Define a context and a problem the feature solves. List potential use cases and give some code
examples.

Pull request
------------
Provide the same information as you would for a [feature request](#feature-request).

Before issuing a pull request we ask that you squash all your commits into a 
single logical commit. While your PR is in review, we may ask for additional
changes, please do not squash those commits while the review is underway. Once
everything is good, we'll then ask you to further squash those commits before
merging. We ask that you not squash while a review is underway as it can make it
hard to follow what is going on. Additionally, we ask that you:

* [Write a good commit message](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
* Issue 1 Pull Request per feature. Don't lump unrelated changes together.

If you aren't sure how to squash multiple commits into one, Steve Klabnik wrote
[a handy guide](http://blog.steveklabnik.com/posts/2012-11-08-how-to-squash-commits-in-a-github-pull-request)
that you can refer to. 

We keep a [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) of all software changes with behavioural 
effects in ponyc. If your PR includes such changes (rather than say a
documentation update), please make sure that as part of PR, you have also
updated the CHANGELOG.

Code Formatting
---------------
A few code formatting rules to be aware of if you are submitting changes. In
general, take a look at the existing code and try to match that formatting
style. A couple things that might not be immediately obvious.

* Indentation

We indent using spaces not tabs. The unit of indentation is two spaces.

* Watch your whitespace!

Use an editor plugin to remove unused trailing whitespace. This includes both at
the end of a line and at the end of a file. By the same token, remember to leave
a single newline only line at the end of each file. It makes output files to the
console much more pleasant.

* Line Length

We all have different sized monitors. What might look good on yours might look
like awful on another. Be kind and wrap all lines at 80 columns unless you
have a good reason not to.

* Style

*Variable and method names* -- Variable and method names should be
lowercase and should have underscores between the words. Examples:
`from_array`, `offset_to_index`.

*Class, type, interface, trait, and primitive names* -- Class, type,
interface, trait, and primitive names should start with an uppercase
letter and each word should be capitalized. Examples: `StringBytes`,
`ErrorReason`, `ReadlineNotify`, `FloatingPoint` `UnrecognizedOption`.

*Breaking up parameter lists* -- A method signature may need to be
split across several lines in order to follow the rule that the line
length must be 80 characters or fewer. The accepted way to break up a
parameter list is to indent all lines after the first line by 2
spaces, and to place the `=>` on a line by itself at the same level of
indentation as the `fun` or `be` at the beginning of the
declaration. Example:

```pony
  fun ref append(seq: (ReadSeq[A] & ReadElement[A^]), offset: USize = 0,
    len: USize = -1): Array[A]^
  =>
```

* Reformatting code to meet standards

Try to avoid doing it. A commit that changes the formatting for large chunks of
a file makes for an ugly commit history when looking for important changes. This
means, don't commit code that doesn't conform to coding standards in the first
place. If you do reformat code, make sure it is either standalone reformatting
with no logic changes or confined solely to code whose logic you touched. For
example, changing the indentation in a file? Do not make logic changes along
with it. Editing a line that has extra whitespace at the end? Feel free to
remove it.

[complete-issue-list]: //github.com/ponylang/ponyc/search?q=&type=Issues&utf8=%E2%9C%93
[new-issue]: //github.com/ponylang/ponyc/issues/new
